[DAL] Array class specification (#195)
oneapi-src/oneAPI-spec: source/elements/oneDAL/source/data_management/array.rst

.. highlight:: cpp
.. default-domain:: cpp

=====
Array
=====

The array is a simple concept over the data in |dal_short_name|. It represents
a storage that:

1. Holds the data allocated inside it or references to the external data. The
   data are organized as one :term:`homogeneous <Homogeneous data>` and
   :term:`contiguous <Contiguous data>` memory block.

> 2. Contains information about the memory block size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Contains information about the memory block's size.
```
or
```suggestion
2. Contains information about the size of the memory block.
```

> 3. Supports both :term:`immutable <Immutability>` or mutable data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Supports both :term:`immutable <Immutability>` and mutable data.
```

4. Provides an ability to change the data state from immutable to
   mutable one.

5. Holds ownership information on the data (see the :txtref:`data_ownership_requirements` section).

> 6. Ownership information on the data can be shared between several arrays - it is
>    possible to create new array from another one without any data copies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Ownership information on the data can be shared between several arrays. It is
   possible to create a new array from another one without any data copies.
```

-------------
Usage example
-------------

> Next listing provides a brief introduction to the array API and example of basic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following listing provides a brief introduction to the array API and an example of basic
```

      print_property("arr_mdata elements count", arr_mdata.get_count()); // equal to data_count
      print_property("Is arr_mdata mutable", arr_mdata.has_mutable_data()); // false

      /// Copying data inside arr_mdata to new mutable memory block.
      /// arr_data still refers to the original data pointer.
      arr_mdata.need_mutable_data(queue);

      print_property("Is arr_data mutable", arr_data.has_mutable_data()); // false
      print_property("Is arr_mdata mutable", arr_mdata.has_mutable_data()); // true

      queue.submit([&](sycl::handler& cgh){
         auto mdata = arr_mdata.get_mutable_data();
         auto cones = arr_ones.get_data();
         cgh.parallel_for<class array_addition>(sycl::range<1>(data_count), [=](sycl::id<1> idx) {
            mdata[idx[0]] += cones[idx[0]];
         });
      }).wait();

      std::cout << "arr_mdata values: ";
      for(std::int64_t i = 0; i < arr_mdata.get_count(); i++) {
         std::cout << arr_mdata[i] << ", ";
      }
      std::cout << std::endl;

      return 0;
   }

.. _data_ownership_requirements:

---------------------------
Data ownership requirements
---------------------------

> The array shall support following requirements on the internal data management:
> 
> 1. An array shall own two properties representing raw pointers to the data:
> 
>    - ``data`` for a pointer to immutable data block,
>    - ``mutable_data`` for a pointer to mutable data block (see the :txtref:`programming_interface`).
> 
> 2. If array owns mutable data, both properties shall point to the same memory
>    block.
> 
> 3. If array owns immutable data, ``mutable_data`` shall be ``nullptr``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The array shall support the following requirements on the internal data management:

1. An array shall own two properties representing raw pointers to the data:

   - ``data`` for a pointer to immutable data block
   - ``mutable_data`` for a pointer to mutable data block (see the :txtref:`programming_interface`)

2. If an array owns mutable data, both properties shall point to the same memory
   block.

3. If an array owns immutable data, ``mutable_data`` shall be ``nullptr``.
```

> 4. Array shall store the count of elements in the block it owns and shall update
>    the ``count`` property when a new memory block is assigned to the array.
> 
> 5. Array shall store a pointer to the **ownership structure** on the data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. An array shall store the number of elements in the block it owns and shall update
   the ``count`` property when a new memory block is assigned to the array.

5. An array shall store a pointer to the **ownership structure** of the data:
```

   - The **reference counter**, indicating how many array objects refer to the
     same memory block.

   - The **deleter** object used to free the memory block, when

>      reference counter becomes zero.

Reviewer: in both cases no commas needed

> 6. Array shall create the ownership structure for a new memory block that do not
>    associated with such structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. An array shall create the ownership structure for a new memory block that is not
   associated with such a structure.
```

> 7. Array shall decrement the number of references to the memory block then the
>    array goes out of the scope. If the number of references becomes zero, the
>    array shall call the deleter on this memory block and free the ownership structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. An array shall decrement the number of references to the memory block when the
   array goes out of the scope. If the number of references reaches zero, the
   array shall call the deleter on this memory block and free the ownership structure.
```

> 8. Array shall store the pointer to the ownership structure created by another
>    array when they share the data. Array shall increment the reference counter
>    to be equal to the number of array objects sharing the same data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. An array shall store the pointer to the ownership structure created by another
   array when they share the data. An array shall increment the reference count
   for it to be equal to the number of array objects sharing the same data.
```

.. _programming_interface:

---------------------
Programming interface
---------------------

The following declarations are defined in ``oneapi/dal/array.hpp`` within
``oneapi::dal`` namespace.

All the ``array`` class methods can be divided into several groups:

1. Constructors that are used to create an array from external, mutable or
   immutable memory.

> 2. Constructors and assignment operators to create an array that shares data
>    with another one.
> 
> 3. The group of ``reset()`` methods to re-assign an array to another external
>    memory block.
> 
> 4. The group of ``reset()`` methods to re-assign an array to an internally
>    allocated memory block.
> 
> 5. The methods to access the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Constructors and assignment operators that are used to create an array that shares its data
   with another one.

3. The group of ``reset()`` methods that are used to re-assign an array to another external
   memory block.

4. The group of ``reset()`` methods that are used to re-assign an array to an internally
   allocated memory block.

5. The methods that are used to access the data.
```
